Hey guys welcome back.
And this video we're going to be looking at server side validation so in the last one we looked at client
side validation and in the same way that these data annotations worked on the client.
They're going to work the same way on the back end and buy back in I don't mean anything inappropriate
I'm talking about the back end server.
So the server side code the C-sharp that's running on the web server or the Kestral web server.
If you're on one note when X or or Mac.
But if you're on Windows you could run this on us.
And that's the default Windows web server that's been around for a very long time but are back in server
side code can actually validate and a very similar way.
So let's go ahead and look at our controller for the music controller and we're going to go ahead and
we're posting the data to the controller.
So I'm going to go ahead and post to this end point here and you can see that we have this from form
attribute on there.
Now this is different from the earlier videos that had the from body and the from body is actually what
is getting the body content from an AJAX Jaison posts.
So like you said Jaison dating data on the body it can be SML or something else but either way you need
to say from form if you're getting it from form elements so will run the app from Visual Studio so that
we can head to spray point and we'll put the breakpoint right here on the try statement and make sure
it's on the curly brace so it actually gets hit because if it fails before you obviously won't get that
return statement.
So here we have the form I'm going to go out and just post some valid values here so that we can satisfy
the requirements and we'll post all these values to the form.
And if everything went well we're not running the I'm sorry.
You need to make sure you're running the app from Visual Studio.
That's something you're probably going to do with the watch it's great.
You can run it from the console but with Visual Studio you get the actual debugging and that's like.
That's really one of the benefits of using Visual Studio and C-sharp.
So unfortunately for people on the command line like you don't have that option.
But anyway let's go ahead and post this.
Hopefully there is some I'm sure there's some sort of we have to actually Sunday number.
I'm sure that there is some sort of way of actually getting proper debugging on a command line just
using Natcore like on Linux or Mac but I'm not actually 100 percent sure.
So unfortunate I don't know about that but with visual studio we do get this debugging and we can actually
see the values that are being posted here and what we're going to want to do here is on the server side
we can actually validate these values because on the client you know obviously the malicious user can
they can like bypass the javascript is validating your data and they can send bogus say to your server
and your server wouldn't know any better.
If it doesn't actually check to make sure that whatever you check on the client side should also be
checked for on the server side.
So that's what we're going to do now.
So in order to validate all we have to do is we can say there is this special keyword or we can say
if and when we say capital like M for model state.
Is valid then we can just say we'll just cancel log something Konsole right line
and really it's not like any sort of special built in method with C-Sharp it's all about static classes
or abstract classes.
There's interfaces there's extension methods and knowing all the difference in trying to explain that
is much too difficult for a beginner who are some like not even I'm just glossing over that.
So if we fire up the server and we go ahead and we put a breakpoint on here I'm going to go ahead and
submit the form and I should get this model state is valid and if it's true then it means that everything
pass server side that you also set for client side validation using the annotations.
We said Honor band class right here.
So that means if I post these valid values here I'm going to hit the server and you're going to see
that I post all those valid values.
Ed matched all the client site validation.
That's why it was even allowed to hit the server and when it got here it also did the server side validation
check for everything and said is if model state is valid and it's true.
And this is like I said this is a little bit more complex but you can think of this is some way you
know kind of built in magic but you kind of have to just get used to it and you can learn more about
how it actually is working under the covers.
But Moto-ST is valid is attached to the data annotations that are being used on your model class and
that is being set here so there's a lot of magic under the hood.
It's very similar to kind of like Ruby on Rails type of thing but you eventually get used to it and
you just start using the shortcuts and you just realize hey I don't really have to understand all of
how that all works but I just have to know how to use it.